Specification: Library system

1. Objective

Media and user of a library are managed by the library system.

2. Operational Area

The library system is operated by the library staff (librarian)
and library user (user) through terminals. 

3. Product overview

The library system contains a user administration and a media
administration.

3.1 User administration

The user administration contains a user account for each user 
which contains all user data. 
A librarian is able to create a new user account, to edit and
to delete an existing user account.
A user is able to register at the system with his user number,
to manage his user account, and to extend the media's rental 
period.
A password is not necessary because the user number on the 
identification card is read with a bar code scanner.

3.2 Media administration

The media administration contains an entry for each medium in
the library. Several instances of each medium may be available,
and they may have different locations. 
A librarian is able to add a new instance to the media adminis-
tration, change the status of an instance and remove an in-
stance from the media administration.
A user is able to search for a medium by specifying one or more 
features of the media. A found instance can be chosen and re-
served. To this end, the user number on the identification 
card is scanned. If a user borrows an instance, it is added to 
his account and will only be deleted when it is returned. 

4. Product function

A user account must be available for each user. A librarian has 
access to all accounts of all users. A user has only access to 
his own user account by using his user number. 
A user is able to:
  - search a medium (search medium)
  - reserve one or more media instances (reserve instance)
  - borrow one or more media instances (borrow instance)
  - extend the rental period of one or more media instances 
    (extend instance)
  - return one or more instances (return instance) 
A librarian is able to:
  - create a user account (create account)
  - edit a user account (edit account)
  - delete a user account (delete account)
  - create, edit and delete a medium (manage medium)
 
4.1. Use Case: Search medium

The user specifies one or more titles and obtains a list of 
media which contain the titles. The search can be restricted 
to designated media types and attributes. 
Procedure:
  1. The user specifies one or more search criteria.
  2. It is searched for matching media in the media 
     administration.
  3. The user receives a list of media that match the search 
     criteria.

4.2  Use Case: Reserve instance

The user specifies an instance which he would like to reserve 
(e.g. by selection after a search) and has to identify himself 
to the system. The instance is registered in the reservation 
list of his user account. The status of the instance is set to 
'available and reserved' or to 'borrowed and reserved'.
Procedure:
  1. The user enters the shelfmark of the requested medium.
  2. The user receives a list of instances of the medium.
  3. The user chooses an instance.
  4. The user identifies himself to the system.
  5. The procedure is terminated with a status signal 
     if the user account is not valid anymore or closed.
  6. The status of the instance is set from available to 
     'available and reserved' or from 'borrowed' to 'borrowed 
     and reserved'.

4.3. Use Case: Borrow instance

The user has to identify himself to the system and 
specifies a list of instances he wishes to borrow. The in-
stances are listed in the borrowing list of his user account.
Only instances can be borrowed which are available, or avail-
able and reserved and the user is the first on the reservation
list.
Procedure:
  1. The user identifies himself to the system and chooses the
    'borrow' menu.
  2. The procedure is terminated if the user account is not 
     valid anymore or closed. 
  3. The user specifies an instance which should be borrowed 
     (shelfmark of the instance is scanned).
  4. If the instance's status is 'available' or 'reserved and 
     available', and the user is the first on the reservation
     list, the instance can be borrowed otherwise borrowing 
     the instance is rejected. 
  5. The instance is registered in the list of borrowed media 
     of the user account.
  6. The user is registered in the list of users who have/had 
     borrowed the instance.
  7. The status of the instance is changed to 'borrowed' or 
     'reserved and borrowed'.
  8. The instance is unlocked.
  9. If a further instance shall be borrowed, continue at 
     step 3.
  10. The user receives a receipt for the newly borrowed 
      instance.

4.4. Use Case: Extend rental period of instance

The user has to identify himself to the system and specifies a 
medium instance whose rental period he would like to extend. 
The return date is updated according to the new rental period 
if it does not exceed the maximum rental period and if it is 
not reserved by another user.
Procedure:
  1. User indicates his wish to extend the rental period of
     one or more medium's instances.
  2. System prompts the user to identify himself.
  3. User identifies himself to the system.
  4. System validates that the user account is valid and is 
     not locked.
  5. System presents a view containing a list of medium in-
     stances the user has currently borrowed.
  6. User selects an instance whose rental period he wants to 
     extend.
  7. System validates that the selected instance is not 
     reserved and that its maximum rental time will not be 
     exceeded.
  8. System extends the instance' rental period and adds the 
     extension time to the instance's total time for this 
     rental.

4.5. Use Case: Return instance

The user specifies a list of instances he would like to 
return. The instances are removed from the borrowing list of 
his user account. The status of the instances is set to 
'available' or 'available and reserved'.
Procedure:
  1. The user specifies an instance he wants to return 
     (instance is recognised automatically at the terminal by
     scanning the shelfmark).
  2. The instance is locked.
  3. If the instance did not have the status 'borrowed' or 
     'reserved and borrowed', the procedure is terminated with
     an error message.
  4. The return date is added to the list of users who have
     /had borrowed the instance.
  5. The instance is removed from the borrowing list of the 
     user account.
  6. The status of the instance is changed to 'available' or 
     'available and reserved'.

4.6 The system automatically

reminds the user when he has an instance that is overdue (by 
mail or eMail), informs a user about a reserved and available
instance, releases a reserved instance not borrowed within a 
certain time period, and informs the next user on the 
reservation list (if there is one).

5. Product data

5.1 A user account contains:

  - user number by which the user identifies himself to the 
    system
  - user classification (e.g. staff, student, pupil, guest)
  - user name
  - user's postal address (street, number, postcode, city)
  - user's telephone number (optionally)
  - user's email address (optionally)
  - date until the user account is valid (valid until). 
    A user account ist valid until a certain date and can be 
    extended by a librarian. 
  - indication whether the account has been locked or not. 
    A user account can be locked temporarily, if more than 30 
    instance have been borrowed, if an instance is overdue or 
    if the unpaid fees exceed a certain amount.
  - amount of unpaid fees
  - a list of borrowed instances (borrowed media), which con-
    tains the instances' shelfmarks
  - a list of reserved instances (reserved media), which con-
    tains the instances' shelfmarks
  - a list of unpaid fees, which contains amounts and a reason
    for each amount

5.2 A medium is defined by

  - a partial shelfmark, namely the part of the shelfmark which
    is independent of the instance
  - an identification code (medium code indicating its type: 
    book, magazine, CD, video) 
  - a list of authors
  - a title
  - an additional title
  - the year of publication
  - a list of keywords

5.3 An instance is defined by

  - a definite identification (shelfmark) according to the 
    Regensburger Verbundklassifikation, which consists of:
    - local identification: up to 4 digits for location (part 
      library) of a medium, followed by a slash
    - notation: two large capitals for the discipline and 4 
      to 5 digits for a sub-discipline.
    - author name in coded form according to the Cutter 
      Sanborn notation (a capital and 3 digits)
    - volume number followed by a dash
    - edition in brackets
    - multiple instance (plus sign) for example: 
      100/ST 230 B198-1(2)+9
  - a status (acquisition process, reading room, available, 
    reserved and available, borrowed, reserved and borrowed, 
    missing)
  - a return date
  - a list of users who have/had borrowed the medium (with 
    return date if already returned)
  - a sorted list of users who have reserved the medium (FIFO)
  - a list of components belonging to the instance (e.g. a CD 
    belonging to a book, map)
  - a text file for comments

A medium is either a book or a magazine or a video or a CD.

5.4 A book is described by

  - a publisher
  - a place of publication
  - an editor
  - an ISBN

5.5 A magazine is described by

  - a publisher
  - a year of publication
  - a list of articles
  - a list of authors

5.6 A video is described by

  - a genre
  - a list of actors

5.7 A CD is described by

  - a genre
  - a list of titles
  - a list of artists

6. Instance states

When a new instance is bought, it is in the state of 'newly 
acquired'.
When an acquired instance is released, it is put into a shelf 
and is then available. 
When an instance is available it can be borrowed.
When an instance is available it can be registered as missing.
When an instance is available it can be sorted out. 
When a borrowed instance's rental period is extended, it is 
still borrowed.
Alternatively, a borrowed instance can be returned, and is 
then available again.
Alternatively, a borrowed instance can be reserved and is then 
in the state of 'borrowed and reserved'.
A borrowed instance can only be returned, and is then 
'available and reserved'. 
When an instance is transfered into the state of 'available 
and reserved', the first user on its reservation list is 
informed.
When an instance is available and reserved, it can be 
borrowed or, if not borrowed within a certain time period, the
next user on its reservation list is informed. If no user has 
reserved the instance, then it is available.
A missing instance can become available by releasing it.
When an instance is sorted out, it is in its final state.
